#summary How should a Player attack a target?
#labels Featured,Phase-Design

== The Problem ==

Different enemies will be affected differently by different attacks. I don't want to manually type in what type and ratio of attacks to use against particular enemies, e.g. "kick, kick, kick, punch, stab, kick, kick, kick, &c."

== Solutions ==

  # Macros
    * specify what to do, but not when, but no "while" clause
  # Triggers
    * specify what to do, and when, but not no "while" clause
  # "Attack Profile": A combination of macros, triggers and "while" clauses
    * specify what to do, when, and for how long
    * an extended trigger or a trigger API
  # Scripting 
    * Scripting with event-handling

== Attack Profile ==

By an "attack profile" I'm envisioning a trigger API that a user "programs" against to create a strategy for a particular combat situation: it determines what actions to take and when; the actions could be offensive, defensive, or potentially anything else. The "when" will be the triggers such as "when attacked by enemy X" or possibly "when enemy Y performs attack Z". 

Players would set up and maintain their profiles for different enemies and situations and the strategies will be employed automatically when the user attacks. (Or the player could potentially set it up to attack automatically). 

If we went any broader than this we'll probably just be implementing scripting. It would be wise to see if this will be needed in other areas.

== Ideas ==

  # Allow attack profiles for mob types (i.e. spiders) 
  # Allow attack profiles for mob "classes"?
    * We don't have mob classes yet
  # Allow regex patterns for matching enemies? 
    * The programming-player in me loves this idea
  # How to specify attacks
    * By limb? (e.g. Right hand)
    * By Weapon? (e.g. Sword)
    * Either or? (e.g. attack with my sword and/or my left foot)
    * Qualifiers? (e.g. Attack with my right hand if it's armored?)
  # Auto attacks? (e.g. if I run up against an easy enemy just attack automatically)
  # What attack to use when, and how often
    * Attack 5 times with my sword then kick once?
    * Event-driven attacks
      * Regex pattern matching? (e.g. cast a spell whenever /`*`.dragon.`*`tail.`*`/ is detected)
    * percentages
    * success-based attacks? (e.g. attack 5 times with everything then use what worked best)
  # Enemy prioritizing
    * Attack enemy X before enemy Y
    * Attack whoever is doing the most damage
    * Attack any enemy using a special attack (e.g. a spell)
    * Ignore stunned/incapacitated enemies
  # Allow the user to turn off or switch profiles

  Almost seems like there needs to be a separate Player Attack Engine, kind of like V.A.T.S in Fallout 3.